This is a much modified version of the public domain spread sheet sc,
posted a year or two ago by Mark Weiser as vc, originally by James Gosling.

Changes since my last version (3.1):

1) More portable external declarations
2) Range names
3) Encryption (Thanks to Bradley Williams)
4) @rnd rounding operator
5) 5.3 compatibility (%$#@% curses!)
6) @stddev standard deviation function
7) max, min changed to range functions (NOT COMPATIBLE WITH LAST RELEASE!)
8) Clean up and bug fixes
Thanks to Larry Campbell for the xmalloc stuff, Eric Goldman, Carl
Clawson, Narayan Mohanram, Greg Franks, Rick Daley and
Nick (lai@ucla) for bug reports and enhancements.

I had several requests for a modification that I don't personally
like. Since Larry Campbell sent the mods, I compromised and added them
under the compilation flag "QUICK". If you want to enter numeric
constants into cell locations by just typing the number without a
leading "=", set "QUICK" in the makefile. The down side of the change
is you must always type ^U before you can enter a leading count
parameter for a command or before "0" to return to column 0.
Since many of the commands allow a leading count, I felt the change was
not a win. I did not document the mod in the man page since I don't
use it.

I have modified the makefile to make it easy for you to call the
program what you want (I saw at least five different names in
correspondence and on the net). Just change "name=sc" and "NAME=SC" to
"name=myfavoritename" and "NAME=MYFAVORITENAME" and try "make
myfavoritename".

Similarly, you can make the documentation with "make myfavoritename.man".
"make install" will make and install the code in EXDIR. The
installation steps and documentation all key off of the name. The
makefile even changes the name in the nroffable man page. If you don't
have nroff, you will have to change sc.man yourself.

The code has been tested against a Vax running 4.2 and 4.3 and a National
ICM-3216 with system V.2 and V.3. The ICM has a National Semi 32016. Just
check the makefile for the system flags. I have heard reports of lots
of other machines that work. I have added ifdefs for system III and for
Berkeley 4.3. If you have problems with lex.c, and don't care about arrow
keys, define SIMPLE (-DSIMPLE in the makefile). SIMPLE causes the arrow
keys to not be used.

Disclaimer:

Sc is not a product of National Semiconductor. It is supplied as is with
no warranty, express or implied, as a service to Usenet readers.

Bob Bond

Robert Bond ihnp4!nsc!nscpdc!rgb
National Semiconductor tektronix!nscpdc!rgb